Project Name:
IMAGE-BASED AGE AND GENDER CLASSIFICATION WITH CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS (CNN)


Problem Statement:
	Age and gender characteristics can be applied in retail for contextual advertising for particular group of customers
To conduct a review of the existing solutions for image recognition by age and gender with an emphasis on convolutional neural networks (CNNs)
To describe the algorithm scheme of the proposed system




(Age and gender characteristics can be applied in retail for contextual advertising for particular group of customers: By identifying the age and gender of customers from images, retailers can create targeted advertising campaigns that are more likely to resonate with specific groups of customers. For example, a retailer could target advertising for children's clothing to families with young children, or advertising for men's grooming products to men.
To conduct a review of the existing solutions for image recognition by age and gender with an emphasis on convolutional neural networks (CNNs): This would involve researching the current state of the art in image recognition for age and gender classification, focusing specifically on CNN-based solutions. This could include a review of relevant papers, articles, and patents, as well as an evaluation of existing systems and their performance.
To describe the algorithm scheme of the proposed system: This would involve outlining the specific steps and methods used in the proposed system for age and gender recognition using CNNs. This could include details of the CNN architecture, the preprocessing of images, and the methods used to train and evaluate the model, as well as any specific techniques used to address bias or other challenges in the task.
)

Literature Survey: 
Abhijit Das, Antitza Dantcheva and Francois Bremond Mitigating Bias in Gender, Age and Ethnicity classification [1], they proposed a system using multi-task CNN approach which was ranked first in the BEFA challenge of European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV). The model used by them was FaceNet and ResNet. The accuracy they got for race was 84%, gender was 94% and age was 72%. 
Philip Smith, Cuixian Chen Transfer Learning with Deep CNNs for Gender Recognition and Age Estimation [2], in this they replaced the 1000 class predefined layer by ImageNet with a prediction layer of 101 classes for age prediction. In this the transfer learning is detected by the help VGG-19 and VGG-Face. MAE achieved 4.10 years which helped in improving the age estimation model. 96% accuracy was achieved with the help of VGG-19.


Dataset: 
Image and text data from Kaggle and IBM websites 

user_id - the folder in the dataset containing the image. 
original_image - image name in the dataset.
face_id - the Face ID in the original Flickr image. 
age - age label of the face.
gender - gender label of the face.
x, y, dx, dy -the bounding box of the face in the original Flickr image. These values represent the coordinates of the top-left corner of the bounding box, the width, and height of the box.
tilt_ang, fiducial_yaw_angle - pose of the face in the original Flickr image.
fiducial_score - score of the landmark detector.the score of the landmark detector, which can be used as a measure of the quality of the face detection.
           Total no. of images : 18551
